2026 BRITISH GRAND PRIX
03 - 05 July 2026
The FIA Formula 1 Media Delegate
From The FIA Formula 1 Media Delegate
To All Teams, All Officials
Document 33
Date 04 July 2026
Time 08:26
Title Post-Qualifying Procedure
Description Post-Qualifying Procedure
Enclosed 2026 British Grand Prix - Post-Qualifying Procedure.pdf
Cameron Kelleher

 
2026 BRITISH GRAND PRIX 
03 – 05 July 2026 
 
  
  
From The FIA Formula 1 Media Delegate    
  
To All Officials, All Teams      Date  04 July 2026 
  
 
NOTE TO TEAMS: POST-QUALIFYING PROCEDURE 
 
The Post-Qualifying procedure requires the top three (3) drivers to be interviewed once they have got out 
of their cars. Should either of your drivers be among the top three (3) at the end of qualifying we would like 
to ask for your co-operation in ensuring the procedure below is followed: 
 
• If they take the chequered flag at the end of Q3, the fastest three (3) drivers should return to the Pit 
Lane where they will find the 1,2,3 boards. 
• Other than the team mechanics (with cooling fans if necessary), officials, FIA pre -approved television 
crews and photographers, no one else will be allowed in the designated area at this time (no driver 
physios nor team PR personnel).  
• Once out of their cars, the top three (3) Drivers will be weighed by the FIA. Each Driver must remain 
fully attired until after they have been weighed (e.g: Helmet, Gloves, etc). 
• After the Drivers have been weighed, the Post-Qualifying interviews will take place in Parc Ferme. The 
interviewer will be selected by the Commercial Rights Holder. 
• If any of the top three (3) drivers is in the Pit Lane at the end of the session, the team should ensure 
that they go directly to the designated area once the other drivers have arrived there. 
• At the end of the live interviews the drivers will be led to the backdrop for the Top 3 and Pirelli Award 
photo opportunities. 
• The top three (3) drivers will then be escorted by the FIA Media Delegate to the FIA Press Conference. 
• At the end of the FIA Press Conference, the top three (3) drivers will be taken to the TV pen. 
• Drivers eliminated in Q1 and Q2, drivers classified from 4th to 10th in Q3 and drivers who did not 
participate in Q1 but are eligible to race must also attend the TV pen interview immediately after they 
have been weighed by the FIA at the end of the last part of qualifying in which they participated.  
• Any Driver from 4 th and beyond who does not have a session for the written media organised after 
Qualifying must be available for interviews at the written media zone adjacent to the TV pen once their 
TV interviews have concluded. 
 
For drivers outside of the top three (3) positions at the end of qualifying we would like to ask for your co -
operation in ensuring the procedure below is followed: 
• Any drivers who finished participating in the qualifying sessions after Q1 and Q2 must proceed to the 
FIA scales through the pit lane immediately after they have returned to the team’s garage. The drivers 
may not drink anything or do anything which increases their weight before it is recorded by the FIA. 
• Any driver, who stops on the track during the qualifying sessions and is not required to visit the Medical 
Centre, must proceed to the FIA scales to get his weight recorded before returning to his team. 
• Drivers who finish within the top 10 must proceed to the FIA scales immediately when out of their cars 
without contact with any other person. 
 
 
 

Please see the attached Qualifying - Parc Fermé Diagram. 
 
Cameron Kelleher  
 
The FIA Formula 1 Media Delegate
 
TV RF
Cameraman
Version 1 – 03 July 2026
Pit Wall Pit Wall
F1 VIPFIA 
GARAGES
Parc Ferme – Qualifying2026 British Grand Prix
Grid Position 13
Photographers
Photographers
Waiting Area
FIA SCALES
 