2026 BRITISH GRAND PRIX
03 - 05 July 2026
The FIA Formula 1 Media Delegate
From The FIA Formula 1 Media Delegate
To All Teams, All Officials
Document 8
Date 03 July 2026
Time 08:50
Title Post-Sprint Qualifying Procedure
Description Post-Sprint Qualifying Procedure
Enclosed 2026 British Grand Prix - Post-Sprint Qualifying Procedure.pdf
Cameron Kelleher

 
 
 
2026 BRITISH GRAND PRIX 
03 – 05 July 2026 
 
  
  
From The FIA Formula 1 Media Delegate    
  
To All Officials, All Teams      Date  03 July 2026 
  
 
NOTE TO TEAMS: POST-SPRINT QUALIFYING PROCEDURE 
 
The Post-Sprint Qualifying procedure requires the fastest driver to be interviewed once he has got out of 
his car. We would like to ask for your co-operation in ensuring the procedure below is followed: 
 
• If they take the chequered flag at the end of SQ3, the fastest three (3) drivers should return to the Pit 
Lane where they will find the 1,2,3 boards. 
• Other than the team mechanics (with cooling fans if necessary), officials, FIA pre -approved television 
crews and photographers, no one else will be  allowed in the designated area at this time (no driver 
physios nor team PR personnel). At the sole discretion of the FIA Media Delegate, the team-embedded 
photographer of the fastest driver may also be permitted in the Parc Fermé area at this time. 
• Once out of their cars, the top three (3) Drivers will be weighed by the FIA. Each Driver must remain 
fully attired until after they have been weighed (e.g: Helmet, Gloves, etc). 
• After the Drivers have been weighed, the Post -Sprint Qualifying interview with the fastest driver only  
will take place in the designated area. The interviewer will be selected by the Commercial Rights Holder.   
• If the fastest driver is in the Pit Lane at the end of the session, the team should ensure that he goes 
directly to the designated area once the other drivers have arrived there. 
• At the end of the live interview the fastest driver will be led to the backdrop for a Pirelli Award photo 
opportunity. The Pirelli Award will be presented by a fan selected through an online contest. 
• The fastest driver will then conduct a pooled TV interview at the back of the FIA Garages. There will be 
no Press Conference following the Sprint Qualifying. 
• Drivers eliminated in SQ1 and SQ2, drivers classified from 2nd to 10th in SQ3 and drivers who did not 
participate in SQ1 but are eligible to race must conduct a pooled TV interview immediately after they 
have been weighed by the FIA at the end of the last part of the Sprint Qualifying in which they 
participated. This will take place directly behind the FIA garage.  
 
For drivers positioned outside the top three (3) at the end of Sprint Qualifying we would like to ask for your 
co-operation in ensuring the procedure below is followed: 
 
• Any drivers who finished participating in the Sprint Qualifying sessions after SQ1 and SQ2 must proceed 
to the FIA scales through the pit -lane immediately after they have returned to the team’s garage. The 
drivers may not drink anything or do anything which increases their weight before it is recorded by the 
FIA. 
• Any driver, who stops on the track during the qualifying sessions and is not required to visit the Medical 
Centre, must proceed to the FIA scales to get his weight recorded before returning to his team. 
• Drivers who finish within the top 10 must proceed to the FIA scales  immediately when out of their cars 
without contact with any other person. 

 
 
 
 
Please see the attached Sprint Qualifying - Parc Fermé Diagram. 
 
Cameron Kelleher 
 
The FIA Formula 1 Media Delegate 
 
 
 
TV RF
Cameraman
Version 1 – 03 July 2026
Pit Wall Pit Wall
F1 VIPFIA 
GARAGES
Parc Ferme – Sprint Qualifying2026 British Grand Prix
Grid Position 13
Photographers
Photographers
Waiting Area
FIA SCALES
 