2026 BRITISH GRAND PRIX
03 - 05 July 2026
The FIA Formula 1 Media Delegate
From The FIA Formula 1 Media Delegate
To All Teams, All Officials
Document 66
Date 05 July 2026
Time 09:01
Title Post-Race Procedure
Description Post-Race Procedure
Enclosed 2026 British Grand Prix - Post-Race Procedure.pdf
Cameron Kelleher

 
 
 
2026 BRITISH GRAND PRIX 
03 – 05 July 2026 
 
  
  
From The FIA Formula 1 Media Delegate    
  
To All Officials, All Teams      Date  05 July 2026 
  
 
NOTE TO TEAMS: POST-RACE INTERVIEWS & PODIUM CEREMONY PROCEDURE 
 
In addition to the provisions in Article B10.2 of the FIA F1 Regulations, the Podium Ceremony procedure 
detailed below must be followed. 
 
Post-Race Interviews and Podium Ceremony Procedure: 
• The master of ceremonies will be appointed by the FIA to conduct and take responsibility for the 
entire podium ceremony.  
• After taking the chequered flag the top three (3) drivers should return to the Pit Lane  where they 
will find the 1,2,3 boards in front of the podium. 
• Drivers will be weighed by the FIA. Each Driver must be fully attired while they are weighed (e.g.: 
Helmet, Gloves, etc.). Water will be available in the parc fermé area after the drivers have been 
weighed. 
• Other than the team mechanics (with cooling fans if necessary), officials, FIA pre-approved television 
crews and photographers, no one else will be allowed in the designated area at this time ( no team 
PR personnel, driver physios must wait outside the cool down room until the podium ceremony has 
concluded following the instructions given to all teams by the Media Delegate).  
• Competitors are reminded of Article B10.2.2 of the FIA F1 Regulations : “For the duration of the 
Podium Ceremony and post-Race interview procedure, the drivers finishing the Race in 1st, 2nd and 
3rd positions must remain attired only in their Driving Suits, ‘done up’ to the neck, not opened to the 
waist.” 
• The post-Race interviews will take place in Parc Fermé and the interviewer will be selected by 
the Commercial Rights Holder. 
• Drivers must not interfere with parc fermé protocols in any way. 
• Once the interviews have been completed, the Drivers will be immediately escorted to the cool down 
room. Each Driver will be given their Pirelli Cap. 
• The drivers will then be escorted to the Podium area where the 1, 2, 3 Rostrum and Dias will be 
located.  
• When the Drivers are ready, an announcement for the Podium Ceremony will take place with the 3rd 
and 2nd placed Drivers introduced to move to their respective Podium Dias steps. 
• The Winning Driver will then be announced who will move to his position on the Podium.  
• The National Anthems will then take place and flags will be displayed.  
• Dignitaries will present the trophies on the podium as arranged by the Master of Ceremonies. 
• Each driver or representative must accept their trophy and presentations will take place in the 
following order: 
o Winning Driver 
o FIA Medal for the Winning Driver 
o A representative of the Winning Constructor 

 
 
o 2nd Place Driver 
o 3rd Place Driver 
• Following the Podium Ceremony, the top three (3) drivers will be escorted by the FIA Media Delegate 
to the TV pen. 
• At the end of the TV pen, the top three (3) drivers will be escorted to the FIA Press Conference. 
• Drivers from 4 th and beyond must proceed directly to  the TV pen after they have been weighed in 
the Parc Fermé. Each Driver must remain fully attired until after they have been weighed (e.g.: 
Helmet, Gloves, etc.).  
• Any Driver from 4th and beyond who does not have a session for the written media organised after 
the race must be available for interview at the written media zone adjacent to the TV pen once their 
TV interviews have concluded. 
• Drivers who retire during the race are required to go to the TV pen (and written media pen if they do 
not have a session for the written media organised after the race) as soon as they have come back 
into the paddock. 
 
Please see the attached Post Race Podium Ceremony and Parc Fermé Diagram. 
 
 
Cameron Kelleher 
 
The FIA Formula 1 Media Delegate 
 
  
 
 
Version 1  – 05 July 2025
Pit Wall Pit Wall
TV RF
Cameraman
Parc Ferme - Race2026 British Grand Prix
Photographers
Photographers
Waiting Area
FIA 
SCALES
F1
VIP
FIA
GARAGES
