2026 BRITISH GRAND PRIX
03 - 05 July 2026
The FIA Formula 1 Race Director
From The FIA Formula 1 Race Director
To All Teams, All Officials
Document 5
Date 02 July 2026
Time 16:36
Title Race Director's Competition Notes
Description Race Director's Competition Notes
Enclosed 2026 British Grand Prix Competition Notes.pdf
Rui Marques

1 
 
 
 
2026 BRITISH GRAND PRIX 
03 – 05 July 2026 
  
  
From The FIA Formula 1 Race Director    
  
To All Officials, All Teams     Date   02 July 2026 
  
                                                                             COMPETITION NOTES  
       
General Instructions  
1. Laps during Sprint Qualifying, Qualifying Session and Reconnaissance Lap(s), 
For the safe and orderly conduct of the Competition, other than in exceptional circumstances 
accepted as such by the Stewards, any driver that exceeds the maximum time from the Second 
Safety Car Line to  the First Safety Car Line on ANY lap during and after the Sprint Qualifying, 
Qualifying Session, including in-laps and out-laps or during reconnaissance laps when the pit exit is 
opened for the Sprint and the Race, may be deemed to be going unnecessarily slowly.  
Teams and Drivers will be informed of the maximum time after the second Practice Session. 
For the avoidance of doubt, this does not supersede Article s B1.8.5 and B4.1.1 of the FIA F 1 
Regulations, which apply to the entire Circuit, furthermore this includes the pit lane as well. Incidents 
will normally be investigated after the Sprint Qualifying, Qualifying Session, Sprint or the Race.  
 
2. Parc Fermé 
Team Personnel permitted access to the Parc Fermé area for the sole purpose of fitting cooling   fans 
and undertaking any work required by those officials charged with supervision of parc fermé, may 
enter Parc Fermé using the route shown below:                                                                      
 
                                                               
 
3. Lapping during the Sprint and the Race 
The International Sporting Code (ISC) requires drivers who are caught by another car to allow the faster 
driver past at the first available opportunity. 
The F1 marshalling system will be set to give a pre-warning when the faster car is within 3.0s of the car 
about to be lapped, this should be used by the team of the slower car to warn their driver he is soon 
going to be lapped and that allowing the faster car through should be considered a priority. When the 
faster car is within 1.2s of the car about to be lapped blue light panels will be shown to the slower car 
(in addition to blue light panels, blue cockpit lights and a message on the timing monitors)  and the 
driver must allow the following driver to overtake at the first available opportunity. 

2 
 
4. Article B5.13.6 of the FIA F1 Regulations  
In order to avoid the likelihood of accidents before the safety car returns to the pits, from the point at 
which the orange lights on the safety car are extinguished drivers must proceed at a pace which 
involves no erratic acceleration or braking nor any other manoeuvre which is likely to endanger other  
drivers or impede the restart.  
    
5. ERS Safety Check after Covers Off 
In accordance with the provisions set out in Appendix B2, Section 12.1 of the  FIA F1 Regulations , 
as work required by the Te chnical Delegate; Each morning, immediately after covers are removed 
when the cars are under parc fermé conditions (Articles B3.4.1, B3.4.2 and B3.4.3 ), 
all Teams must connect the umbilical to their  cars and start a  telemetry data logging  for the sole  
purpose of checking the car ERS safety status. 
 
6. Pit Lane Safety  
Article B1.6.2c of the FIA F1 Regulations  states: “Team personnel are only allowed in the Pit Lane 
immediately before they are required to work on a Car and must withdraw as soon as the work is 
complete.” 
For the safe and orderly conduct of the competition, in the context of the race only, the requirements 
of Article B1.6.2c are considered to apply until such time as all cars able to do so have completed the 
Race and have entered the designated Parc Ferme area. Following the end -of-session signal, 
described in Article B2.5.3, and when the Race Director considers it safe to do so, the message “ALL 
PASS HOLDERS MAY ACCESS THE PIT LANE” will be sent to all competitors using the official 
messaging system; this being the signal to all competitors that the requirements of Article B1.6.2c are 
no longer applicable, and thus holders of passes not valid for access to the Pit Lane (i.e. passes other 
than those marked “Pit Lane” or “Pit Lane All Times”) may enter the Pit Lane. 
Competitors are reminded that in accordance with the I SC, Article 9.15.1 “The Competitor shall be 
responsible for all acts or omissions on the part of any person taking part in, or providing a service in 
connection with, a Competition or a Championship on their behalf, including in particular their 
employees, direct or indirect, their Drivers, mechanics, consultants, service providers, or passengers, 
as well as any person to whom the Competitor has allowed access to the Reserved Areas. 
 
7. Lap times in all LTCS and TTCS 
          Only lap times which have been completed on the track will be included for the purpose of any 
classification.   
 
8. Starting Procedure 
8.1 For the safe and orderly conduct of the Competition, once all F1 Cars starting from the grid have 
returned to the grid at the end of the formation lap or laps prior to the Sprint and the Race or a Standing 
Start Resumption, the starting grid light panels will be illuminated blue (flashing) for 5 seconds and 
the information panel on the start gantry will display the message “Pre -Start”, following which the 
light sequence defined in to Article B5.7.2 of the FIA F1 Regulations will commence. 
8.2 Article B1.8.4 states “the light signals displayed on the trackside light panels have the same meaning 
as flag signals”. For the avoidance of doubt, the starting grid panels are not considered a track side 
light panel, i.e, the display of a yellow starting procedure panel is for information propose only, 
without any regulatory instruction.  
 
9. Finishing the Race 
For the purpose of finishing the Sprint, pursuant to Article B2.3.3 of the FIA F1 Regulations, and the Race, 
pursuant to Article B2.5.3 of the FIA F1 Regulations, the “Line” referred to will be the Control Line on the 
track and not in the Pit Lane. 

3 
 
10. Double Waved Yellow Flag 
For the safe and orderly conduct of the event, in addition to the provisions of the Article B1.8.4b, any 
driver passing through a double waved yellow flag marshalling sector during a Free Practice session will 
have that lap time deleted. 
 
Competition Specific Instructions 
 
11. Marshalling System  
11.1 A car entering the Pit Lane will be subject to the marshalling state (i.e. yellow flag or double yellow 
flag) of the associated sector until it passes the blue line marked on the image below.    
 
           
                                                                                                                                                         
11.2 A car leaving the Pit Lane will be subject to the marshalling system state i.e. yellow flag or double 
yellow flag of the sector into which it is emerging after it passes the blue line marked on the image 
below. 
                                                                       
 
12. Support Races team barrier placement and movements  
Team barrier placement prior to and during all support category Practice Sessions, Sprint and Race: 
No more than (1) one meters from the garage. 
Please ensure that your pit stop gantry arms are moved back towards the garage during all support  
category activities. 
Support Crews and Trolleys will be released into Pit Lane no earlier than 30 minutes prior to the  
opening of pit exit for their respective sessions. 
Support Category competition vehicles will be released from the marshalling area no earlier than 15 
minutes prior to the opening of pit exit for their respective sessions. 
 
13. Practice starts 
13.1 No practice starts may be carried out at the pit exit.                                               
13.2 Practice starts after the Free Practice session will be performed according to Article B4.2.2 of 
the FIA F1 Regulations.  
13.3 For the safe and orderly conduct of the competition, pursuant to article B4.2.2, any driver on track 
when the end of session signal is shown for the Free Practice session, may complete two further 
laps, for the sole purpose of stopping on the grid to perform practice starts on each of these laps. 
13.4 If a Free Practice session is resumed with less than 2 minutes remaining, for the purpose of 
facilitating practice starts on the grid as provided for in Article B4.2.2 of the FIA F1 Regulations, 
any car wishing to leave the Pit Lane must proceed down the Pit Lane without undue delay and 
exit the Pit Lane without leaving a significant gap to the car ahead. 
13.5 For the avoidance of doubt, practice starts may not be carried out during the Sprint Qualifying and 
the Qualifying Session.  
 
 

4 
 
13.6 Practice starts during the reconnaissance laps: 
Cars wishing to perform a practice start should leave the pit lane using the Pit Exit Road and 
must NOT cross the white line separating the Pit Exit Road from the circuit. They may stop in the 
area immediately prior to Safety Car Line 2, and perform a prac tice start. All such cars MUST 
then join the circuit from the Pit Exit Road. 
Cars NOT wishing to perform a practice start should leave the pit lane and MUST cross the white 
lines separating the Pit Exit Road from the track at the earliest opportunity and join the “normal” 
racing line. All such cars MUST NOT cross back into the Pit Exit Road. 
Under no circumstances  drivers can  perform a practice start if another F1 Car remains 
stationary in front of them. 
  
                                                            
                                                                                           
14. Article B1.6.3d of the FIA F1 Regulations 
(…) Any car(s) driven to the end of the Pit Lane prior to the start or re -start of a LTCS must form up in 
a line in the Fast Lane and leave in the order they got there (…) 
It is noted that a car will be considered to be “in the fast lane” when a tyre has crossed the solid white 
line separating the fast lane from the inner lane, in this  context crossing means that all of a tyre 
should be beyond the far side, with respect to the garages, of the line separating the fast lane from 
the inner lane.   
                                                                                                                                         
For the avoidance of doubt, ISC Appendix L, Chapter IV, Article 5b) states that: 
Once a car has left its garage or pit stop position it should blend into the fast lane as soon as it is safe 
to do so, and without unnecessarily impeding cars which are already in the fast lane. 
Thus, after the start or re -start of the Free Practice session , Sprint Qualifying and/or Qualifying 
Session, if there is a suitable gap in a queue of cars in the fast lane, such that a driver can blend into 
the fast lane safely and without unnecessarily impeding cars already in the fast lane, they are free to 
do so. 
Furthermore, it is noted that during the Free Practice session, Sprint Qualifying and Qualifying a car 
driving in the inner lane, parallel to the fast lane, will not be considered to have blended into the fast 
lane at the earliest opportunity. 
Additionally, ISC Appendix L, Chapter IV, Article 5d) states that: 
Cars in either the fast lane or working lane may not overtake other cars in the fast lane except in 
exceptional circumstances. 
In this context a “stopped car” is one which has an obvious mechanical problem. 
 
15. Driving in the Pit Lane During the Race 
This competition is a track where the pit lane is narrow. 
For the safe and orderly conduct of this event, when released from their pit stop position during the 
Sprint and the Race, all cars so released shall be responsible for ensuring that they blend into the fast 
lane as quickly as possible in a safe and orderly manner without unnecessarily impeding any car 

5 
 
already in the fast lane. If this requires the released car to slow down sufficiently to allow car(s) in the 
fast lane to pass them, then that is what the released car should do.  
For the avoidance of doubt, in this case a car will be considered to have entered the fast lane when all 
parts of the car have crossed the line separating the fast lane from the inner lane.  
16. Lines at the Pit Entry and Pit Exit  
16.1 In accordance with Chapter 4, Articles 4 and 6 of Appendix L to the ISC drivers must follow 
the procedures at pit entry and pit exit.     
16.2 Pertaining to Chapter  4, Article 4 of Appendix L to the ISC any driver passing to the right hand 
side of the bollard at safety car line 1 will be considered as entering the pit lane.   
 
                                                  
 
16.3 For the safe and orderly conduct of the event, during any  live session, team personnel are not 
allowed to cross the finish line at the pit lane, as indicated in the picture below.  
 
                                                      
 
16.4 If there is a yellow traffic light  displayed on LHS in the pit entry road it will be a warning of an 
incident at the pit entry road. This signal is not intended for drivers staying on track. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
17. Stopping the Sprint Qualifying or the Qualifying Session 
Pursuant to art. B 4.3.1b of the FIA F1 Regulations, should any period of the Sprint Qualifying or 
Qualifying Session be interrupted with less tha n 90 seconds remaining, the relevant  period of the 
Sprint Qualifying and Qualifying Session will not be resumed.                                        
 

6 
 
18. Post Sprint Qualifying and Post Qualifying Session drivers weighing 
Any driver who has finished participating in the Sprint Qualifying or Qualifying Session after SQ1 or 
SQ2, Q1 or Q2, must proceed through the pit lane directly to the FIA scales immediately after they 
have returned to their team’s garage. The drivers may not drink anything or do anything which 
increases their weight before it is recorded by the FIA. 
Any driver who stops on the track during the Sprint Qualifying or Qualifying Session and is not required 
to visit the Medical Centre must proceed to the FIA scales to get their weight recorded before returning 
to his team. 
Drivers who finish within the top 10 must proceed to the FIA scales immediately when out of their cars 
without contact with any other person. 
 
19. ERS Hazard Status 
If the ERS is in a Hazard Status, the relevant team will be required to send mechanics to the pit exit 
near garage 41. This will be done after the session. They will then be picked up by car and take them 
to their F1 car. 
 
20. Leaving the garage before and during all Practice Sessions 
20.1 Before the start of the Free Practice Session, Sprint Qualifying and Qualifying Session or prior to 
the pit exit opening for the reconnaissance laps, no cars may enter the pit lane to proceed to pit 
exit until 5 minutes before the scheduled start time or announced start time in the case of a 
delayed session.        
20.2 If the Free Practice Session , Sprint Qualifying  or Qualifying Session, or any period thereof, is 
delayed or stopped, cars may only enter the Fast Lane after the re-start time is confirmed via the 
official messaging system. 
 
21. Fire extinguishers around the circuit 
Indicated by white boards with a red fire extinguisher attached to the debris fences. 
 
22. Places to remove cars from the track 
Indicated by fluorescent orange panels/paintings on the barriers.  
23. Removing cars from the grid 
Cars may be removed from the grid through the gates at the start line and grid position 12.  
24. Sprint, Race Suspension or Starting Procedure Suspension 
24.1 In case of Sprint and/or Race suspension or Starting Procedure suspension, (except in case of 
Article B5.14.3 of the FIA F1 Regulations – stopping on the grid), cars will be stopped in the fast 
lane. The first car must stop in the vicinity of the last team garage. 
24.2 Safety Car resumption point: Safety Car will leave the pit lane 1 minute before the resumption 
and wait for the F1 cars at Turn 7 (as per the image below). 
                                                                                                                                       
 
 
25. Grid Panel Placement 
   On the right-hand side of the grid. 
 
26. Grid Procedure 
Article B5.2.4 states that “Any F1 Car which does not  complete a reconnaissance lap and reach the 
grid under its own power will not be permitted to start the TTCS  from the grid.”. In the context of this 

7 
 
article the grid shall be considered to be the section of track highlighted by the RED box in the image 
below, starting from the front of marked grid box #1 and finishing at the rear of marked grid box #28: 
 
                                                        
 
27. Track Limits        
Each time a driver fails to respect track limits at turn 18, will result in that lap time and the immediately 
following lap time being invalidated by the Stewards.                
 
28. Changes to the Circuit 
- Various repairs/improvements to barriers, fencing, track edges, run -off areas, access points, marshal posts. 
- Minor repairs to track surfaces in pit lane and pit exit road .  
- Blue lines to be added at the exit of turns 1, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 13, 15, 17, 18 . 
- Exit of Turn 3 grass was replaced by tarmac.   
- The barrier at Turn 4 left hand side was extended. 
- Blue line to be added at the apex of Turn 8. 
- Drainage improvements between turns 8 and 9. 
- At the entrance of Turn 15 left hand side was added a strip of tarmac behind the kerb  
- Removal of the red sausage behind the kerb at the apex of Turn 17 and 18. 
 
 
 
 
Rui Marques 
The FIA Formula 1 Race Director 
