2026 BELGIAN GRAND PRIX
17 - 19 July 2026
The FIA Formula 1 Race Director
From The FIA Formula 1 Race Director
To All Teams, All Officials
Document 6
Date 16 July 2026
Time 17:16
Title Race Director's Competition Notes
Description Race Director's Competition Notes
Enclosed 2026 Belgian Grand Prix Competition Notes.pdf
Rui Marques

1 
 
 
 
2026 BELGIAN GRAND PRIX 
17 – 19 July 2026 
  
  
From The FIA Formula 1 Race Director    
  
To All Officials, All Teams     Date   16 July 2026 
  
                                                                             COMPETITION NOTES         
General Instructions  
1. Laps during Qualifying Session and Reconnaissance Lap(s), 
For the safe and orderly conduct of the Competition, other than in exceptional circumstances 
accepted as such by the Stewards, any driver that exceeds the maximum time from the Second Safety 
Car Line to the First Safety Car Line on ANY lap during and after the Qualifying Session, including in-
laps and out-laps or during reconnaissance laps when the pit exit is opened for the Race, may be 
deemed to be going unnecessarily slowly.  
Teams and Drivers will be informed of the maximum time after the second Practice Session. 
For the avoidance of doubt, this does not supersede Article s B1.8.5 and B4.1.1 of the FIA F 1 
Regulations, which apply to the entire Circuit, furthermore this includes the pit lane as well. Incidents 
will normally be investigated after the Qualifying Session or the Race.  
 
2. Lapping during the Race 
The International Sporting Code (ISC) requires drivers who are caught by another car to allow the faster 
driver past at the first available opportunity. 
The F1 marshalling system will be set to give a pre-warning when the faster car is within 3.0s of the car 
about to be lapped, this should be used by the team of the slower car to warn their driver he is soon 
going to be lapped and that allowing the faster car through should be considered a priority. When the 
faster car is within 1.2s of the car about to be lapped blue light panels will be shown to the slower car 
(in addition to blue light panels, blue cockpit lights and a message on the timing monitors)  and the 
driver must allow the following driver to overtake at the first available opportunity. 
 
3. Article B5.13.6 of the FIA F1 Regulations  
In order to avoid the likelihood of accidents before the safety car returns to the pits, from the point at 
which the orange lights on the safety car are extinguished drivers must proceed at a pace which 
involves no erratic acceleration or braking nor any other manoeuvre which is likely to endanger other  
drivers or impede the restart.  
    
4. ERS Safety Check after Covers Off 
In accordance with the provisions set out in Appendix B2, Section 12.1 of the  FIA F1 Regulations , 
as work required by the Te chnical Delegate;  Each morning, immediately after covers are removed 
when the cars are under parc fermé conditions (Articles B3.4.1, B3.4.2 and B3.4.3 ), 
all Teams must connect the umbilical to their  cars and start a  telemetry data logging  for the sole  
purpose of checking the car ERS safety status. 

2 
 
 
5. Pit Lane Safety  
Article B1.6.2c of the FIA F1 Regulations  states: “Team personnel are only allowed in the Pit Lane 
immediately before they are required to work on a Car and must withdraw as soon as the work is 
complete.” 
For the safe and orderly conduct of the competition, in the context of the race only, the requirements 
of Article B1.6.2c are considered to apply until such time as all cars able to do so have completed the 
Race and have entered the designated Parc Ferme area. Following the end -of-session signal, 
described in Article B2.5.3, and when the Race Director considers it safe to do so, the message “ALL 
PASS HOLDERS MAY ACCESS THE PIT LANE” will be sent to all competitors using the official 
messaging system; this being the signal to all competitors that the requirements of Article B1.6.2c are 
no longer applicable, and thus holders of passes not valid for access to the Pit Lane (i.e. passes other 
than those marked “Pit Lane” or “Pit Lane All Times”) may enter the Pit Lane. 
Competitors are reminded that in accordance with the ISC, Article 9.15.1 “The Competitor shall be 
responsible for all acts or omissions on the part of any person taking part in, or providing a service in 
connection with, a Competition or a Championship on their behalf, including in particular their 
employees, direct or indirect, their Drivers, mechanics, consultants, service providers, or passengers, 
as well as any person to whom the Competitor has allowed access to the Reserved Areas. 
 
6. Lap times in all LTCS and TTCS 
          Only lap times which have been completed on the track will be included for the purpose of any 
classification.   
 
7. Starting Procedure 
7.1 For the safe and orderly conduct of the Competition, once all F1 Cars starting from the grid have returned 
to the grid at the end of the formation lap or laps prior to the Race or a Standing Start Resumption, the 
starting grid light panels will be illuminated blue (flashing) for 5 seconds and the information panel on 
the start gantry will display the message “Pre-Start”, following which the light sequence defined in to 
Article B5.7.2 of the FIA F1 Regulations will commence. 
7.2 Article B1.8.4 states “the light signals displayed on the trackside light panels have the same meaning as 
flag signals”. For the avoidance of doubt, the starting grid panels are not considered a track side light 
panel, i.e, the display of a yellow starting procedure panel is for information propose only, without any 
regulatory instruction.  
 
8. Finishing the Race 
For the purpose of finishing the Race, pursuant to Article B2.5.3 of the FIA F1 Regulations , the “Line” 
referred to will be the Control Line on the track and not in the Pit Lane. 
 
9. Double Waved Yellow Flag 
For the safe and orderly conduct of the event, in addition to the provisions of the Article B1.8.4b, any 
driver passing through a double waved yellow flag marshalling sector during a Free Practice session will 
have that lap time deleted.  
Competition Specific Instructions  
10. Parc Fermé 
Team Personnel permitted access to the Parc Fermé area for the sole purpose of fitting cooling   fans 
and undertaking any work required by those officials charged with supervision of parc fermé, may 
enter Parc Fermé using the route shown below:                                                             
                                                                           

3 
 
11. Marshalling System  
11.1 A car entering the Pit Lane will be subject to the marshalling state (i.e. yellow flag or double yellow flag) 
of the associated sector until it passes the blue line marked on the image below. 
 
           
                                                                                                                                                         
11.2 A car leaving the Pit Lane will be subject to the marshalling system state i.e. yellow flag or double yellow 
flag of the sector into which it is emerging after it passes the blue line marked on the image below. 
                                                                       
 
12. Support Races team barrier placement and movements  
Team barrier placement prior to and during all support category Practice Sessions and Race: No more 
than (3) three meters from the garage. 
Please ensure that your pit stop gantry arms are moved back towards the garage during all support  
category activities. 
Support Crews and Trolleys will be released into Pit Lane no earlier than 30 minutes prior to the  
opening of pit exit for their respective sessions. 
Support Category competition vehicles will be released from the marshalling area no earlier than  15 
minutes prior to the opening of pit exit for their respective sessions. 
 
13. Practice starts 
13.1 Practice starts may be carried out on the RHS of the Pit Exit road after Turn 1 , before SC2 line in the 
area of the white line, as per the image below . During this time any driver passing a car which has 
stopped to carry out a practice start may cross the white line that referred to in Article 15 below.    
                                           
                                          

4 
 
13.2 Practice starts after the Free Practice session will be performed according to Article B4.2.2 of the FIA 
F1 Regulations.  
13.3 For the safe and orderly conduct of the competition, pursuant to article B4.2.2, any driver on track when 
the end of session signal is shown for the Free Practice 2 session, may complete two further laps, for 
the sole purpose of stopping on the grid to perform practice starts on each of these laps. 
13.4 If a Free Practice session is resumed with less than 2 minutes remaining, for the purpose of facilitating 
practice starts on the grid as provided for in Article B4.2.2 of the FIA F1 Regulations, any car wishing 
to leave the Pit Lane must proceed down the Pit Lane without undue delay and exit the Pit Lane without 
leaving a significant gap to the car ahead. 
13.5 For the avoidance of doubt, practice starts may not be carried out during the Qualifying Session.  
13.6 Practice starts during the reconnaissance laps: 
Cars wishing to perform a practice start should leave the pit lane using the Pit Exit Road and must NOT 
cross the white line separating the Pit Exit Road from the circuit. They may stop in the area immediately 
before SC2 line in the area of the white line, and perform a practice start. All such cars MUST then join 
the circuit from the Pit Exit Road. 
Cars NOT wishing to perform a practice start should leave the pit lane and MUST cross the white lines 
separating the Pit Exit Road from the track at the earliest opportunity and join the “normal” racing line. 
All such cars MUST NOT cross back into the Pit Exit Road. 
Under no circumstances can drivers perform a practice start if another F1 Car remains stationary in  
front of them. 
                                                                                           
14. Article B1.6.3d of the FIA F1 Regulations 
(…) Any car(s) driven to the end of the Pit Lane prior to the start or re-start of a LTCS must form up in a 
line in the Fast Lane and leave in the order they got there (…) 
It is noted that a car will be considered to be “in the fast lane” when a tyre has crossed the solid white 
line separating the fast lane from the inner lane, in this context crossing means that all of a tyre should 
be beyond the far side, with respect to the garages, of the line separating the fast lane from the inner 
lane.   
                                                                                                                                         
For the avoidance of doubt, ISC Appendix L, Chapter IV, Article 5b) states that: 
Once a car has left its garage or pit stop position it should blend into the fast lane as soon as it is safe 
to do so, and without unnecessarily impeding cars which are already in the fast lane. 
Thus, after the start or re -start of the Free Practice session and/or Qualifying Session, if there is a 
suitable gap in a queue of cars in the fast lane, such that a driver can blend into the fast lane safely and 
without unnecessarily impeding cars already in the fast lane, they are free to do so. 
Furthermore, it is noted that during the Free Practice session and Qualifying a car driving in the inner 
lane, parallel to the fast lane, will not be considered to have blended into the fast lane at the earliest 
opportunity. 
Additionally, ISC Appendix L, Chapter IV, Article 5d) states that: 
Cars in either the fast lane or working lane may not overtake other cars in the fast lane except in 
exceptional circumstances. 
In this context a “stopped car” is one which has an obvious mechanical problem. 
 
15. Lines at the Pit Entry and Pit Exit  
15.1 In accordance with Chapter 4, Articles 4 and 6 of Appendix L to the ISC drivers must follow the 
procedures at pit entry and pit exit.     
15.2 Pertaining to Chapter 4, Article 4 of Appendix L to the ISC any driver passing to the right-hand side of 
the bollard at safety car line 1 will be considered as entering the pit lane.   
 

5 
 
                                                  
 
15.3 For the safe and orderly conduct of the event, during any live session, team personnel are not allowed 
to cross the finish line at the pit lane, as indicated in the picture below.  
 
                                                      
 
15.4 If there is a yellow flag displayed on LHS in the pit  entry road it will be a warning of an incident at the 
pit entry road. This flag is not intended for drivers staying on track. 
 
                                                          
15.5 If there is a white flag displayed on the LHS in the pit exit road it will be a warning of a car stationary for 
a practice start in the pit exit road. This flag is not intended for drivers staying on track.   
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     

6 
 
16. Stopping the Qualifying Session 
Pursuant to art. B 4.3.1b of the FIA F1 Regulations, should any period of the Qualifying Session be 
interrupted with less than 100 seconds remaining, the relevant  period of the Qualifying Session will 
not be resumed.                                        
 
17. Post Qualifying Session drivers weighing 
Any driver who has finished participating in  the Qualifying Session after  Q1 or Q2,  must proceed 
through the pit lane directly to the FIA scales immediately after they have returned to their team’s 
garage. The drivers may not drink anything or do anything which increases their weight before it is 
recorded by the FIA. 
Any driver who stops on the track during the Qualifying Session and is not required to visit the Medical 
Centre must proceed to the FIA scales to get their weight recorded before returning to his team. 
Drivers who finish within the top 10 must proceed to the FIA scales immediately when out of their cars 
without contact with any other person. 
 
18. ERS Hazard Status 
If the ERS is in a Hazard Status, the relevant team will be required to send mechanics to the pit entry 
area. This will be done after the session. They will then be picked up by car and take them to their F1 
car. 
 
19. Leaving the garage before and during all Practice Sessions 
19.1 Before the start of the Free Practice Session, Qualifying Session or prior to the pit exit opening for the 
reconnaissance laps, no cars may enter the pit lane  to proceed to pit exit  until 5 minutes before the 
scheduled start time or announced start time in the case of a delayed session.        
19.2 If the Free Practice Session, Qualifying Session, or any period thereof is delayed or stopped, cars may 
only enter the Fast Lane after the re-start time is confirmed via the official messaging system. 
 
20. Places to remove cars from the track 
Indicated by fluorescent orange panels/paintings on the barriers.  
21. Removing cars from the grid 
Cars may be removed from the grid through the gate at the grid position 1.  
22. Race Suspension or Starting Procedure Suspension 
22.1 In case of  Race suspension or Starting Procedure suspension, (except in case of Article B5.14.3 of the 
FIA F1 Regulations – stopping on the grid), cars will be stopped in the fast lane. The first car must stop 
in the vicinity of the last team garage. 
22.2 Safety Car resumption point: Safety Car will leave the pit lane 1 minute before the resumption and wait 
for the F1 cars before Turn 10. (as per the image below). 
                                                                                                                                                                              
 
23. Grid Panel Placement 
                On the left-hand side of the grid. 
 
24. Grid Procedure 
Article B5.2.4 states that “Any F1 Car which does not  complete a reconnaissance lap and reach the 
grid under its own power will not be permitted to start the  TTCS from the grid.”. In the context of this 
article the grid shall be considered to be the section of track starting from the front of marked grid box 
#1 and finishing at the rear of marked grid box #30 (last grid box painted). 

7 
 
                                                        
25. Track Limits        
Each time a driver fails to negotiate the exit of turn 19, will result in that lap time and the immediately 
following lap time may be invalidated by the Stewards.    
 
26. Light panels: 
26.1 In case of an incident, the yellow and double yellow light panel will be mirrored on the following 
panels:  
• Panel 5 will be mirrored on panel 4. 
• Panel 6 will be mirrored on panel 5 and 4. 
 
27. End of Race Procedure 
 After receiving the end of  the race signal, all drivers must reduce their speed in a safe manner and 
immediately after Turn 1 turn right and enter the pit exit to drive up the fast lane until they reach Parc 
Fermé. 
 
28. Detection Line 
The detection line referred to in Article B7.2.1 , is  at the same location of the Safety Car Line 1, 
therefore, will not be painted in yellow. 
OT boards are installed on the RHS side of the track.  
 
29. FP1 Systems Test – Low Grip Conditions & Normal Grip Conditions Messages & States 
At the start of the FP1 session when the first car enters the Pit Lane fast lane to proceed on track, the 
“Low Grip Delta” message followed by “Low Grip Conditions” message will be sent and relevant 
marshalling system status set. 
After 3 cars have entered the track and reached Turn 17, noting that use of SM will be inhibited in this 
zone due to the Low Grip Status , the message “Normal Grip Conditions” followed by “Normal Grip 
Delta” message will be sent and relevant marshalling system status set. 
At the end of the FP1 session, when the last F1 Car on track has left the grid having completed their 
practice starts, the “Low Grip Delta” message followed by  “Low Grip Conditions” message will be 
sent and relevant marshalling system status set; these states will be maintained until all F1 Cars have 
returned to the Pit Lane. 
   
30. Changes to the Circuit 
• New gate at the pit exit road on the right-hand side. 
• The wall has been extended on the right-hand side approaching turn 2. 
• The Kemmel straight (between turns 4 and 5) has had rain grooves cut into the asphalt. 
• The track surface has been ground down at turn 14 to remove a bump. 
• At the apex of Turn 5 the grasscrete behind the kerb has been removed and replaced with  
• asphalt. 
• Smother beginning of the kerb at the apex Turn 19. 
• Asphalt repairs approaching Turn 1, Turn 14 and Turn 17. 
 
 
Rui Marques 
The FIA Formula 1 Race Director 