2026 BELGIAN GRAND PRIX
17 - 19 July 2026
The FIA Formula 1 Media Delegate
From The FIA Formula 1 Media Delegate
To All Teams, All Officials
Document 52
Date 19 July 2026
Time 08:50
Title Post-Race Procedure
Description Post-Race Procedure
Enclosed 2026 Belgian Grand Prix - Post-Race Procedure.pdf
Roman De Lauw

  
 2026 BELGIAN GRAND PRIX 17 – 19 July 2026      From The FIA Formula 1 Media Delegate      To All Officials, All Teams      Date  19 July 2026    NOTE TO TEAMS: POST-RACE INTERVIEWS & PODIUM CEREMONY PROCEDURE  In addition to the provisions in Article B10.2 of the FIA F1 Regulations, the Podium Ceremony procedure detailed below must be followed.  Post-Race Interviews and Podium Ceremony Procedure: • The master of ceremonies will be appointed by the FIA to conduct and take responsibility for the entire podium ceremony.  • After taking the chequered flag, all drivers should return to the Pit Lane using the Pit Exit. This means that cars will be driving in the opposite direction down the Pit Lane and all teams must ensure that team personnel and guests do not enter the Pit Lane through the garages until after all cars have reached the parc fermé area. • The top three (3) drivers should stop where they will find the 1, 2, 3 boards in front of the FIA Garage. • Drivers will be weighed by the FIA. Each Driver must be fully attired while they are weighed (e.g.: Helmet, Gloves, etc.). Water will be available in the parc fermé area after the drivers have been weighed. • Other than the team mechanics (with cooling fans if necessary), officials, FIA pre-approved television crews and photographers, no one else will be allowed in the designated area at this time (no team PR personnel, driver physios must wait outside the cool down room until the podium ceremony has concluded following the instructions given to all teams by the Media Delegate).  • Competitors are reminded of Article B10.2.2 of the FIA F1 Regulations: “For the duration of the Podium Ceremony and post-Race interview procedure, the drivers finishing the Race in 1st, 2nd and 3rd positions must remain attired only in their Driving Suits, ‘done up’ to the neck, not opened to the waist.” • The post-Race interviews will take place in Parc Fermé and the interviewer will be selected by the Commercial Rights Holder. • Drivers must not interfere with parc fermé protocols in any way. • Once the interviews have been completed, the Drivers will be immediately escorted to the cool down room. Each Driver will be given their Pirelli Cap. • The drivers will then be escorted to the Podium area where the 1, 2, 3 Rostrum and Dias will be located.  • When the Drivers are ready, an announcement for the Podium Ceremony will take place with the 3rd and 2nd placed Drivers introduced to move to their respective Podium Dias steps. • The Winning Driver will then be announced who will move to his position on the Podium.  • The National Anthems will then take place and flags will be displayed.  • Dignitaries will present the trophies on the podium as arranged by the Master of Ceremonies. • Each driver or representative must accept their trophy and presentations will take place in the 

  
following order: o Winning Driver o FIA Medal for the Winning Driver o A representative of the Winning Constructor o 2nd Place Driver o 3rd Place Driver • Following the Podium Ceremony, the top three (3) drivers will be escorted by the FIA Media Delegate to the TV pen. • At the end of the TV pen, the top three (3) drivers will be escorted to the FIA Press Conference. • Drivers from 4th and beyond must proceed directly to the TV pen after they have been weighed in the Parc Fermé. Each Driver must remain fully attired until after they have been weighed (e.g.: Helmet, Gloves, etc.).  • Any Driver from 4th and beyond who does not have a session for the written media organised after the race must be available for interview at the written media zone adjacent to the TV pen once their TV interviews have concluded. • Drivers who retire during the race are required to go to the TV pen (and written media pen if they do not have a session for the written media organised after the race) as soon as they have come back into the paddock.  Please see the attached Post Race Podium Ceremony and Parc Fermé Diagram.   Roman De Lauw  The FIA Formula 1 Media Delegate
  
