FIA Social Media Community Guidelines 
The FIA is committed to creating a n online environment where you can communicate, interact  and engage  in a 
respectful, positive and safe manner.  
As the governing body and the referee of motor sport, we are working to promote positive sport ing values and to 
prevent harmful, discriminatory  and abusive behavior directed to the fans, FIA staff, volunteers, officials, teams, 
drivers, partners and all stakeholders without whom there would be no sport. 
While users may disagree with an idea, comment or question, we prohibit any form of harassment, insults or 
threats, as well as comments that are inappropriate, offensive, profane, inflammatory, culturally, racially or socially 
insensitive, disruptive, harassing or defamatory. Please keep all comments relevant and appropriate to the 
conversation. 
Community Monitoring: 
We have a zero-tolerance policy on discrimination, abuse or bullying of any kind.  People engaged in 
such actions will not be welcome in our online community. We will take appropriate action against any comments 
or posts that do not meet our guidelines – from hiding, deleting, to blocking or reporting. 
We will not tolerate any form of abuse or discrimination including:  
Racism  
Homophobia  
Sexism  
Hateful, abusive and offensive language 
Threat 
Sexual harassment  
Incitement to violence  
In addition to the constant monitoring of our team across all digital platforms, we also utilize Arwen.ai – a leading 
provider of community management AI tools – to help ensure the interaction and engagement on our social media 
channels are in line with our guidelines. 
Reporting: 
You can block any user that is causing you harm or distress. If you encounter any abusive, hateful, or discriminatory 
comments online, we strongly advise that you report this directly to the respective social media platform where 
you witnessed the incident. Each platform has its own reporting procedure, and we would advise following their 
processes. You can find out more about reporting directly via the platforms here: 
 
Instagram 
Twitter 
Facebook 
TikTok 
YouTube 
LinkedIn 
If you have any specific concerns about online abuse, please contact onlineabuse@fia.com 