2026 CANADIAN GRAND PRIX
22 - 24 May 2026
The FIA Formula 1 Media Delegate
From The FIA Formula 1 Media Delegate
To All Teams, All Officials
Document 40
Date 23 May 2026
Time 09:48
Title Post-Sprint Procedure
Description Post-Sprint Procedure
Enclosed 2026 Canadian Grand Prix - Post-Sprint Procedure.pdf
Roman De Lauw

 
 
 
2026 CANADIAN GRAND PRIX 
22 – 24 May 2026 
 
  
  
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate    
  
To All Officials, All Teams      Date  23 May 2026 
  
 
NOTE TO TEAMS: POST-SPRINT PROCEDURE 
 
The Post-Sprint procedure requires the top three (3) drivers to be interviewed once they have got out of 
their cars. Should either of your drivers be among the top three (3) at the end of the Sprint we would like 
to ask for your co-operation in ensuring the procedure below is followed: 
 
• After taking the chequered flag the top three (3) drivers should return to the Pit Lane where they will 
find the 1,2,3 boards in front of the podium close to the Pit Lane Exit.  
• Other than the team mechanics (with cooling fans if necessary), officials, FIA pre- approved television 
crews and photographers, no one else will be allowed in the designated area at this time. 
• Once out of their cars, the top three (3) Drivers will be weighed by the FIA. Each Driver must remain 
fully attired until after they have been weighed (e.g: Helmet, Gloves, etc). 
• After the Drivers have been weighed, the interviews will take place in Parc Fermé. The interviewer will 
be selected by the Commercial Rights Holder. 
• At the end of the live interview the top three (3) drivers will be led to the backdrop for an a ward photo 
opportunity. 
• The top three (3) drivers will then be escorted by the FIA Media Delegate to the FIA Press Conference. 
• At the end of the FIA Press Conference, the top three (3) drivers will be taken to the TV pen. 
• Drivers from 4th and beyond must proceed directly to the TV pen after they have been weighed in the 
Parc Fermé. Each Driver must remain fully attired until after they have been weighed (e.g.: Helmet, 
Gloves, etc.).  
• Drivers who retire during the Sprint are required to go to the TV pen as soon as they have come back 
into the paddock. 
 
Please see the attached Sprint - Parc Fermé Diagram.
 
 
Roman De Lauw 
 
The FIA Formula 1 Media Delegate

 
 
TV RF
Cameraman
Version 1 – 22 May 2026
Remaining 
cars parked 
at FIA 
garage Security
Grandstand
Parc Ferme - Sprint2026 Canadian Grand Prix
Photographer’s
Photographers 
access only
Podium
Security
2nd
3rd 
1st 
Fence
Camera platform steps 
and Pit Lane only
Pit Wall
Backdrop
Photographer’s
 