2026 CANADIAN GRAND PRIX
22 - 24 May 2026
The FIA Formula 1 Race Director
From The FIA Formula 1 Race Director
To All Teams, All Officials
Document 6
Date 21 May 2026
Time 17:25
Title Race Director's Competition Notes
Description Race Director's Competition Notes
Enclosed 2026 Canadian Grand Prix Competition Notes.pdf
Rui Marques

1 
 
 
 
2026 CANADIAN GRAND PRIX 
22 – 24 May 2026 
  
  
From The FIA Formula 1 Race Director    
  
To All Officials, All Teams     Date   21 May 2026 
  
                                                                             COMPETITION NOTES   
General Instructions  
1. Laps during Sprint Qualifying, Qualifying Session and Reconnaissance Lap(s), 
For the safe and orderly conduct of the Competition, other than in exceptional circumstances 
accepted as such by the Stewards, any driver that exceeds the maximum time from the Second 
Safety Car Line to  the First Safety Car Line on ANY lap during and after the Sprint Qualifying,  
Qualifying Session, including in-laps and out-laps or during reconnaissance laps when the pit exit is 
opened for the Sprint and the Race, may be deemed to be going unnecessarily slowly.  
Teams and Drivers will be informed of the maximum time after the Practice Session. 
For the avoidance of doubt, this does not supersede Articles B1.8.5 and B4.1.1 of the FIA Formula 1 
Regulations, which apply to the entire Circuit, furthermore this includes the pit lane as well. Incidents 
will normally be investigated after the Sprint Qualifying, Qualifying Session, Sprint or the Race. 
Additionally, during Qualifying, drivers making way for faster cars between Turn 12 and Turn 13 must 
clearly move away from the racing line to the far right hand side. 
 
2. Parc Fermé 
2.1 Team Personnel permitted access to the Parc Fermé area for the sole purpose of fitting cooling   
fans and undertaking any work required by those officials charged with supervision of parc 
fermé, may enter Parc Fermé using the route shown below: 
                                                 
 
2.2 Team Personnel permitted access to the Parc Fermé area , for the podium cars, for the sole 
purpose of fitting cooling   fans and undertaking any work required by those officials charged 
with supervision of parc fermé, may enter Parc Fermé using the route shown below: 
 

2 
 
                                                  
 
3. Lapping during the Sprint and the Race 
The International Sporting Code (ISC) requires drivers who are caught by another car to allow the faster 
driver past at the first available opportunity. 
The F1 marshalling system will be set to give a pre-warning when the faster car is within 3.0s of the car 
about to be lapped, this should be used by the team of the slower car to warn their driver he is soon 
going to be lapped and that allowing the faster car through should be considered a priority. When the 
faster car is within 1.2s of the car about to be lapped blue light panels will be shown to the slower car 
(in addition to blue light panels, blue cockpit lights and a message on the timing monitors)  and the 
driver must allow the following driver to overtake at the first available opportunity. 
 
4. Article B5.13.6 of the FIA F1 Regulations  
In order to avoid the likelihood of accidents before the safety car returns to the pits, from the point at 
which the orange lights on the safety car are extinguished drivers must proceed at a pace which 
involves no erratic acceleration or braking nor any other manoeuvre which is likely to endanger other  
drivers or impede the restart.      
 
5. ERS Safety Check after Covers Off 
In accordance with the provisions set out in Appendix B2, Section 12.1 of the  FIA F1 Regulations , 
as work required by the Te chnical Delegate; Each morning, immediately after covers are removed 
when the cars are under parc fermé conditions (Articles B3.4.1, B3.4.2 and B3.4.3 ), 
all Teams must connect the umbilical to their  cars and start a  telemetry data logging  for the sole 
purpose of checking the car ERS safety status. 
 
6. Pit Lane Safety  
Article B1.6.2c of the FIA F1 Regulations  states: “Team personnel are only allowed in the Pit Lane 
immediately before they are required to work on a Car and must withdraw as soon as the work is 
complete.” 
For the safe and orderly conduct of the competition, in the context of the race only, the requirements 
of Article B1.6.2c are considered to apply until such time as all cars able to do so have completed the 
Race and have entered the designated Parc Ferme area. Following the end -of-session signal, 
described in Article B2.5.3, and when the Race Director considers it safe to do so, the message “ALL 
PASS HOLDERS MAY ACCESS THE PIT LANE” will be sent to all competitors using the official 
messaging system; this being the signal to all competitors that the requirements of Article B1.6.2c are 
no longer applicable, and thus holders of passes not valid for access to the Pit Lane (i.e. passes other 
than those marked “Pit Lane” or “Pit Lane All Times”) may enter the Pit Lane. 
Competitors are reminded that in accordance with the International Sporting Code, Article 9.15.1 “The 
Competitor shall be responsible for all acts or omissions on the part of any person taking part in, or 

3 
 
providing a service in connection with, a Competition or a Championship on their behalf, including in 
particular their employees, direct or indirect, their Drivers, mechanics, consultants, service providers, 
or passengers, as well as  any person to whom the Competitor has allowed access to the  Reserved 
Areas. 
 
7. Lap times in all LTCS and TTCS 
          Only lap times which have been completed on the track will be included for the purpose of any 
classification.   
 
8. Starting Procedure 
8.1 For the safe and orderly conduct of the Competition, once all F1 Cars starting from the grid have 
returned to the grid at the end of the formation lap or laps prior to the Sprint and the Race or a Standing 
Start Resumption, the starting grid light panels will be illuminated blue (flashing) for 5 seconds and 
the information panel on the start gantry will display the message “Pre -Start”, following which the 
light sequence defined in to Article B5.7.2 of the FIA F1 Regulations will commence. 
8.2 Article B1.8.4 states “the light signals displayed on the trackside light panels have the same meaning 
as flag signals”. For the avoidance of doubt, the starting grid panels are not considered a track side 
light panel, i.e, the display of a yellow starting procedure panel is for information propose only, 
without any regulatory instruction.  
 
9. Driver Adjustable Bodywork  
Following any standing start or standing start resumption, Driver Adjustable Bodywork (straight mode) 
will be enabled after Turn 1. 
   
10. Finishing the Race 
For the purpose of finishing the Sprint, pursuant to Article B2.3.3 of the FIA F1 Regulations, and the Race, 
pursuant to Article B2.5.3 of the FIA F1 Regulations, the “Line” referred to will be the Control Line on the 
track and not in the Pit Lane. 
 
11. Double Waved Yellow Flag 
For the safe and orderly conduct of the event, in addition to the provisions of the Article B1.8.4b, any 
driver passing through a double waved yellow flag marshalling sector during a Free Practice session 
will have that lap time deleted. 
 
Competition Specific Instructions 
 
12. Marshalling System  
12.1 A car entering the Pit Lane will be subject to the marshalling state (i.e. yellow flag or double yellow 
flag) of the associated sector until it passes the blue line marked on the image below.    
                                                                                                                                                        
 
12.2 A car leaving the Pit Lane will be subject to the marshalling system state i.e. yellow flag or double 
yellow flag of the sector into which it is emerging after it passes the blue line marked on the image 
below. 

4 
 
                                                             
 
13. Support Races team barrier placement and movements  
Team barrier placement prior to and during all support category practice sessions and races: No  
more than (3) three meters from the garage. 
Please ensure that your pit stop gantry arms are moved back towards the garage during all support  
category activities. 
Support Crews and Trolleys will be released into Pit Lane no earlier than 20 minutes prior to the  
opening of pit exit for their respective sessions. 
Support Category competition vehicles will be released from the marshalling area no earlier than 15 
minutes prior to the opening of pit exit for their respective sessions. 
 
14. Practice starts 
14.1 During the free practice session and any time the pit exit is open for the sprint and the race, 
practice starts may only be carried out after the pit exit on the left -hand side using one of the 
painted grid boxes, as in the image below.  
 
                                            
                                                               
14.2 Practice starts after the Free Practice session will be performed according to Article B4.2.2 of 
the FIA Formula 1 Regulations.  
14.3 If a Free Practice session is resumed with less than 2 minutes remaining, for the purpose of 
facilitating practice starts on the grid as provided for in Article B4.2.2 of the FIA F1 Regulations, 
any car wishing to leave the Pit Lane must proceed down the Pit Lane without undue delay and 
exit the Pit Lane without leaving a significant gap to the car ahead. 
14.4 For the safe and orderly conduct of the competition, pursuant to article B4.2.2, any driver on track 
when the end of session signal is shown for the Free Practice, may complete two further laps, for 
the sole purpose of stopping on the grid to perform practice starts on each of these laps. 
14.5 For the avoidance of doubt, practice starts may not be carried out during the Sprint Qualifying and 
the Qualifying Session.  
                                                                        
15. Article B1.6.3d of the FIA F1 Regulations 
(…) Any car(s) driven to the end of the Pit Lane prior to the start or re -start of a LTCS must form up in 
a line in the Fast Lane and leave in the order they got there (…) 
It is noted that a car will be considered to be “in the fast lane” when a tyre has crossed the solid white 
line separating the fast lane from the inner lane, in this context crossing means that all of a tyre 

5 
 
should be beyond the far side, with respect to the garages, of the line separating the fast lane from 
the inner lane.   
                                                               
  
                                                                                                                                                                   
For the avoidance of doubt, ISC Appendix L, Chapter IV, Article 5b) states that: 
Once a car has left its garage or pit stop position it should blend into the fast lane as soon as it is safe 
to do so, and without unnecessarily impeding cars which are already in the fast lane. 
Thus, after the start or re -start of the Free Practice session , Sprint Qualifying and/or Qualifying 
Session, if there is a suitable gap in a queue of cars in the fast lane, such that a driver can blend into 
the fast lane safely and without unnecessarily impeding cars already in the fast lane, they are free to 
do so. 
Furthermore, it is noted that during the Free Practice session , Sprint Qualifying  and Qualifying 
Session a car driving in the inner lane, parallel to the fast lane, will not be considered to have blended 
into the fast lane at the earliest opportunity. 
Additionally, ISC Appendix L, Chapter IV, Article 5d) states that: 
Cars in either the fast lane or working lane may not overtake other cars in the fast lane except in 
exceptional circumstances. 
In this context a “stopped car” is one which has an obvious mechanical problem. 
 
16. Driving in the Pit Lane During the Race 
This event is at a track where the pit lane is narrow. 
For the safe and orderly conduct of this event, when released from their pit stop position during the 
race, all cars so released shall be responsible for ensuring that they blend into the fast lane as quickly 
as possible in a safe and orderly manner withou t unnecessarily impeding any car already in the fast 
lane. If this requires the released car to slow down sufficiently to allow car(s) in the fast lane to pass 
them, then that is what the released car should do.  
For the avoidance of doubt, in this case a car will be considered to have entered the fast lane when all 
parts of the car have crossed the line separating the fast lane from the inner lane. 
 
17. Lines at the Pit Entry and Pit Exit  
17.1 In accordance with Chapter 4, Articles 4 and 6 of Appendix L to the ISC drivers must follow 
the procedures at pit entry and pit exit.                                      
17.2 Pertaining to Chapter 4, Article 4 of Appendix L to the ISC any driver crossing the blue highlighted 
white line in the pit entry road will be considered as entering the pit lane.   
 
                                               

6 
 
 
17.3 Drivers travelling in the pit entry road must stay to the left of the solid white line on the right -
hand side.  
                                             
 
17.4 Drivers travelling in the pit exit road must stay to the left of the solid white line on the right -
hand side.  
                                            
 
17.5 During the reconnaissance laps prior to the Sprint and the Race drivers are allowed to cross the 
white line separating the Pit Exit Road from the circuit.  
17.6 For the safe and orderly conduct of the event, during any live session, team personnel are not 
allowed in the pit lane beyond the white line crossing the pit lane near pit entry, as indicated in 
the picture below.  
                                                                                         
                                          
18. Stopping the Sprint Qualifying or the Qualifying Session 
Pursuant to art. B4.3.1b, should any period of the Qualifying Session be interrupted with less than 70 
seconds remaining, the relevant period of the Qualifying Session will not be resumed.                                        
 
19. Post Sprint Qualifying and Qualifying Session drivers weighing 
Any driver who has finished participating in the Qualifying Session after SQ1 or SQ2, Q1 or Q2 must 
proceed through the pit lane directly to the FIA scales immediately after they have returned to their 
team’s garage. The drivers may not drink anything or do anything which increases their weight before 
it is recorded by the FIA. 
Any driver who stops on the track during the Qualifying Session and is not required to visit the Medical 

7 
 
Centre must proceed to the FIA scales to get their weight recorded before returning to his team. 
Drivers who finish within the top 10 must proceed to the FIA scales immediately when out of their cars 
without contact with any other person. 
 
20. ERS Hazard Status 
If the ERS is in a Hazard Status , the relevant team will be required to send mechanics to the pit exit 
area in front of the race control building. They will then be picked up by car to bring to their car after 
the session. 
 
21. Leaving the garage before and during all Practice Sessions 
21.1 Before the start of the Free Practice Session, Sprint Qualifying and Qualifying Session or prior to 
the pit exit opening for the reconnaissance laps, no cars may enter the pit lane to proceed to pit 
exit until 5 minutes before the start of the session. 
21.2 If the Free Practice Session , Sprint Qualifying or  Qualifying Session is s topped, cars may only 
enter the Fast Lane after the re-start time is confirmed via the official messaging system. 
 
22. Fire extinguishers around the circuit 
Indicated by white boards with a red fire extinguisher attached to the debris fences. 
 
23. Places to remove cars from the track 
Indicated by fluorescent orange panels/paintings on the barriers. 
 
24. Removing cars from the grid 
Cars may be removed from the grid through the pit lane by pit entry or pit exit. 
 
25. Sprint, Race Suspension or Starting Procedure Suspension 
25.1 In case of Sprint and/or Race suspension or Starting Procedure suspension, (except in case of 
Article B5.14.3 of the FIA F1 Regulations – stopping on the grid), cars will be stopped in the fast 
lane. The first car must stop in the vicinity of the pit exit lights. 
25.2 Safety Car resumption point: Safety Car will leave the pit lane 1 minute before the resumption 
and wait for the F1 cars before Turn 8 (as per the image below). 
                                                                                      
 
 
26. Grid Panel Placement 
   On the left-hand side of the grid. 
 
27. Grid Procedure 
Article B5.2.4 states that “Any F1 Car which does not complete a reconnaissance lap and reach the 
grid under its own power will not be permitted to start the TTCS from the grid.” . In the context of this 
article the grid shall be considered to be the section  of track highlighted by the RED box in the image 
below, starting from the front of marked grid box #1 and finishing at the rear of marked grid box #30: 

8 
 
                              
28. Changes to the Circuit 
• Smoother kerb at Turn 1 apex. 
• Drainage grooves cut in the kerb at Turn 2 apex. 
• Blue line added outside white line at Turn 2 exit. 
• Realignment of the wall at Turn 6 on the right-hand side. 
• New opening at Turn 6 left-hand side.  
• MP12.8 reposition to create an opening 
• Realignment of the wall at Turn 13 runoff on the right-hand side and at Turn 14 when rejoining 
the track. 
• Wide white line and blue line extended at Turn 14 exit. 
• Openings in pit wall debris fencing now fitted with gates. 
• Added dashed line at pit entry before the Safety Car line 1.  
 
29. Detection Line 
The detection line referred to in Article B7.2.1, is at the same location of the Safety Car Line 1, 
therefore, will not be painted in yellow. 
OT boards are installed on both sides of the track.  
   
30. FP1 Systems Test – Low Grip Conditions & Normal Grip Conditions Messages & States 
At the start of the FP  session when the first car enters the Pit Lane fast lane to proceed on track, the 
“Low Grip Delta” message followed by “Low Grip Conditions” message will be sent and relevant 
marshalling system status set. 
After 3 cars have entered the track and reached Turn 9, noting that use of SM will be inhibited in this 
zone due to the Low Grip Status , the message “Normal Grip Conditions” followed by “Normal Grip 
Delta” message will be sent and relevant marshalling system status set. 
At the end of the FP1 session, when the last F1 Car on track has left the grid having completed their 
practice starts, the “Low Grip Delta” message followed by  “Low Grip Conditions” message will be 
sent and relevant marshalling system status set; these states will be maintained until all F1 Cars have 
returned to the Pit Lane. 
  
31. Track Limits 
31.1 Any driver who fails to negotiate Turn 1, and goes straight into the runoff, must rejoin the track as 
shown in the drawing below.  
                               
 
31.2 Any driver who fails to negotiate Turn 9 and passes completely to the left of the orange apex kerb 
must keep completely to the left and re-join the track at the far end of the asphalt run-off.  

9 
 
                                           
 
31.3 Any driver who fails to negotiate Turn 13 and passes completely to the left of the orange apex 
kerb must keep completely to the left of the orange line on the exit of the corner and re -join the 
track at the far end of the asphalt run-off, as shown in the image below.    
                                                        
31.4 Each time a driver fails to respect track limits at Turn 13/Turn 14 during any LTCS, this will result 
in that lap time and the immediately following lap time being invalidated by the Stewards. 
 
 
Rui Marques 
The FIA Formula 1 Race Director 
